A disconnect in the cancer clinical trial ecosystem stands out as a key factor impeding successful feasibility assessment. Trial sites typically assume the role of the passive participant unable to translate key patient data into cogent insights, while sponsors conduct their feasibility studies with the help of data partners that lack quality population insights.The disconnect was examined by a research team led by David Pacchia of the University of Colorado Cancer Center. The team discovered that trial sites were able to provide key patient data at a frequency of only twice per year, while sponsors requested it in-person every two weeks. What's more, the medical experts on most founding boards (professionalism) of clinical trials are not responsible for providing patient information, while the main role of CROs (interaction) with trial sites is to deliver study-related materials such as consent documents and study packets.The disconnect between trial sites and the clinical trial ecosystem causes a number of faults, including improper patient eligibility screening during the clinical trial setup phase. Though patient screening during clinical trials demands the highest level of quality and should be an ongoing process throughout the study, it is often conducted at the last minute.Once a trial is authorized, a sponsor will identify key treatment centres and conduct feasibility assessments. The sponsor typically carries out the feasibility assessment by reviewing the patient data available on clinicaltrials.gov , as well as conducting reviews of the literature and disease registries searching for relevant information about dose requirements or toxicity. The sponsor may also request additional information from investigators or the data manager at each site and use this to inform their dose-finding study design.Why are enrolment rates for oncology trials so low? That was the question Fred Manzo, Senior Director of Clinical Research at the Cancer Institute of New Jersey (CINJ), asked me when I spoke with him last month. His comment came on the heels of an SEORoundtable LIVE Q&A with clinical trial experts from Pfizer, Merck, and CINJ about their real-life experience establishing novel trial sites in underserved communities.Running an oncology trial requires more than simply bringing a new treatment to market. To ensure that a drug can be approved by regulators, sponsors must obtain approval from institutional review boards (IRB) and, more recently, gain formal acceptance of the clinical trial from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration's Oncologic Drugs Advisory Committee. Enrolling patients in clinical trials is one of the most important steps in the drug development process and it is essential for sponsors to recruit adequate numbers of participants within the allotted time period. However, there are often delays in patient enrollment during clinical trials -- a delay that can prevent sponsors from making timely submissions of new drugs to regulators for approval or result in costly extensions to the drug's development timeline. The findings