The cancer clinical trial ecosystem is just one piece of the puzzle. There are many reasons trial sites and sponsors lag behind in their ability to fully evaluate a novel treatment for feasibility, but there’s one idea that stands out. It also happens to be the focus of new research from Ernest Hawk, MD, investigator at Winship Cancer Institute of Emory University and a practicing oncologist with Atlanta Oncology Associates. He and his collaborators say the disconnect boils down to a lack of quality population insights.With no clear understanding of the intricate complexities patients face as they journey through a trial, both trial sites and sponsors risk generating faulty feasibility data. Failing to understand how these issues can lead to a feasibility rejection can be devastating to an early-stage company, halting further research and killing the development of potential new therapies for patients.We asked the two sides to reflect specifically on the feasibility study in question, examining each party’s level of involvement. Principally, the sponsors of this study felt that they lacked a thorough understanding of the per-patient costs at trial sites and encountered patient enrollment challenges across their network while enrolment rates in key geographic markets were low. The sites themselves struggled with comprehending some of the data analyses that were being conducted, which led to a disconnect between researchers and clinicians.R ecent statistical analyses have shown that the cancer clinical trial population is unrepresentative of the general population of cancer patients . T herefore, much attention has been devoted to the interpretation and design of health-related surveys as well as the recruitment and enrolment protocols for clinical trials.  The biggest challenge currently facing the oncology community is one of communication; greater collaboration between trial sites and sponsors is necessary to bring about implementation of patient-centric practices to address this issue.Over the past decade, there’s been a global push to include more trial sites and improve patient enrolment rates in cancer clinical trials. This has led to a growing number of trials and increasing competition among sponsors to get their drugs approved. However, while enrolment rates are on the rise, they are still nowhere near what we would imagine them to be. Though this is not a recent phenomenon; it has always been like this, with enrolment rates rarely crossing 20 per cent of the targeted subject population.