My name is Lanie Malloy – I’m a medical oncology and nutrition researcher at the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. In this paper we address the disconnect across the cancer clinical trial (CT) ecosystem as it relates to feasibility assessment. Specifically, we discuss how there has been a paradigm shift from a more passive approach to one that is participant-centric, with research sites playing an active role in CT planning and execution. We cite ways to overcome current challenges and create opportunities for better integration and synergy across the broader CT ecosystem.Published in the Journal of Clinical Oncology, the article above discusses one of the major challenges in cancer clinical trials — and that is enrollment rates. It’s a common concern across oncology and has been for some time. Specific to oncology, it is a challenge that depends on multiple factors, which ultimately results in an inability for trial sites to maintain or regain their accrual goals; and sponsors being unable to accurately assess feasibility when enrolling sites are under-performing. I feel there is a real disconnect in this process that needs to be resolved before I see any improvement in cancer clinical trials.To overcome these obstacles, it is critical for oncology clinical trial sites to develop a more proactive role in the feasibility assessment process and actively engage sponsors in a meaningful dialogue. It may also be necessary to clarify the roles of all stakeholders, while more effectively leveraging shared data, particularly legacy health information systems, with the goal of improving trial site recruitment and retention strategies.Why are enrolment rates for oncology trials so low? That’s a question some of the major players in the cancer clinical trial ecosystem have been asking themselves. Key opinion leaders and patient advocacy groups note that patients have high levels of interest in participating in clinical trials, but clinical trials are simply failing to attract large numbers of patients.For decades, we’ve seen cancer clinical trials that fail to enroll the targeted and sufficient numbers of participants. Why? Clinicaltrial.gov reveals a trend across the majority of cancer indications which suggests that the reasons vary from indication to indication. Some cancers have no participation rates greater than 5 percent over five years (pancreatic, gynaecological, renal, neuroendocrine and pancreatic). But for other indications we do see some substantial participation rates of 20 percent or more (testicular cancer, lymphoma and hematologic malignancies).The results reveal that only 6% of trial participants were referred by their healthcare provider. Only 1 in 3 trial participants filled out a discussion card, an important source of structured qualitative feedback that sponsors and sites review to guide trial design.