A disconnect in the cancer clinical trial ecosystem stands out as a key factor impeding successful feasibility assessment. Trial sites typically assume the role of the passive participant unable to translate key patient data into cogent insights, while sponsors conduct their feasibility studies with the help of data partners that lack quality population insights. How can this be rectified? At SynapseMed, provider insights are derived from complete population coverage and data transformation providing a unique level of information.The cancer clinical trial landscape is an established hub for pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies to deliver innovative treatments to patients with advanced degrees of disease. These studies are increasingly relevant in ensuring the efficient initiation of regulatory approval processes, post approval market expansions, and regulatory pathway approvals. However, there has been a recent increase in enrolment rates falling short of initial expectations, costing participants substantial pre-trial investment and generating concerns regarding study outcomes. A recent Harris Poll study indicated that 64% of cancer patients often or sometimes had trouble accessing the latest life-saving treatments because of this disconnect. The underlying cause of these feasibility issues is a disconnect across the cancer clinical trial ecosystem where clinical investigators play a vital role in connecting gaps in population knowledge that have led to missed opportunities for recruitmentBut what if the cancer clinical trial ecosystem could be remade to better meet the needs of each stakeholder? What if researchers could mine information from electronic medical records (EMRs) and other sources powered by artificial intelligence (AI) to generate personalized insights for each participant? What if sponsors could confirm patient eligibility proactively without relying on passive data? And what if pairing patient registries with online tools helped trial sites ensure that patients were properly enrolled and retained during trials?The disconnect between trial sites and sponsors can have a direct impact on study feasibility as well as the ability to efficiently expand trials to pivotal status. Trial sites, who understand relevant patient disease and the logistical challenges facing their practices, have been identified as key sources of data, but lack proper systems to store data in an organized fashion or leverage third-party data. This is creating a need for trial site services that can bring them out of their silos.A new set of IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics data highlights a collaboration gap that represents an opportunity for the oncology clinical trial ecosystem. The study reveals that 48 percent of all cancer drug development candidates failed to enroll even one patient to a phase 1 or 2 clinical trial.What are the key factors affecting feasibility assessment when it comes to cancer clinical trials?