Trial sites typically assume the role of the passive participant unable to translate key patient data into cogent insights, while sponsors conduct their feasibility studies with the help of data partners that lack quality population insights.There is a disconnect in the ecosystem of cancer clinical trials. Trial sites believe they lack the insight to identify if a trial is feasible. Sponsors get this information through less than ideal data partners and struggle to gain access to those insights.A recent article from BioPharmaDive highlights the disconnect in the cancer clinical trial ecosystem that results in trial sites not being able to identify and recruit a sizable number of potential study participants. The large number of choices, lack of information on which trials are enrolling near them, and unclear timelines might deter patients from starting a trial.The number of cancer clinical trials has grown substantially over the last few decades in the United States. However, one area in this space is not keeping pace with the rest: the patient entry rates for cancer clinical trials. Traditionally, patients who wish to participate on a trial have had to rely on their treating physician and research institution for logistical reasons and to ensure they are a suitable candidate for the study. The era of digital health promises greater connectedness between patients and researchers through third parties that can bridge critical gaps and achieve greater patient involvement in their care.Clinical trial feasibility prospective has been around since the mid 1980s. The requirements of FDA and European Medicines Agency (EMA) for clinical trial feasibility became stricter, with special courses created clinically or statistically, specifically, for this purpose. However, the main issue that affects feasibility assessment today is still ‘who will participate in the study’. It is no secret that oncology trials are not popular among patients and physicians; hence, there have been numerous approaches taken to try to improve recruitment.While there are several reasons for the low enrollment rate across many oncology clinical trials, this is not the article to dive into those reasons. Instead, it provides insight into a common occurrence in all pre-clinical and phase 1/2 studies; the feasibility assessment.