Pharmaceutical companies are increasingly pursuing oncology drug development strategies to address unmet patient needs. To do so, they rely on successful investigator-initiated clinical trials, also known as feasibility studies, to validate the short-term safety and preliminary efficacy of the proposed new treatment. However, a disconnect in the cancer clinical trial ecosystem stands out as a key factor impeding successful feasibility assessment. Trial sites typically assume the role of the passive participant unable to translate key patient data into cogent insights, while sponsors conduct their feasibility studies with the help of data partners that lack quality population insights.The dilemma of low enrolment in cancer trials remains unsolved. Approaches to date have been lacking the crucial data analysis, which can provide deep insights into how each patient may contribute to a trial’s success. In the end, the seeming lack of feasibility is primarily caused by misaligned incentives between pharma sponsors and trial sites…………………………..(end of excerpt)- Megan MurphyThere’s no debate that the cancer clinical trial ecosystem is in need of serious improvement. Whether it is low patient enrolment rates, excessive time to study start up, lack of statistical power or results that don’t translate to patient benefit – the system is broken, and has been grounded in an approach that hasn’t significantly changed for years. Researchers have studied and report upon the key drivers behind these issues with insights into how to overcome them, but challenges lie at the interfaces between the tumor registries, investigators and pharmaceutical manufacturers providing the funding to support these studies. The disconnect leads to a slow moving cancer trial process with little customer value.The availability of patient data can create a challenge for everyone involved in cancer clinical trials. For example, when the question is posed - what’s your enrollment rate? If the answer is wrong, it could result in a lot of wasted time, money and effort.Oncology trials have one of the lowest enrollments in the industry today, but it's probably not because there aren't enough people with cancer. It's more likely because fewer than 60 percent of cancer patients are getting diagnosed at an early stage and close to 50 percent don't receive treatment2 . Of the ones who do go on to be diagnosed correctly, only half get treated according to guidelines. There are currently over 10 million new cancer cases reported annually providing ample potential source for clinical studies. The biggest challenge in oncology lies in how to appropriately establish a large foundation of study participants  that can faithfully represent the various demographics of a disease.In a recent study of 1,000 cancer trials in the Gastrointestinal Cancers Journal, the authors found that 60% of trial sites had experienced low recruitment rates. A number of factors beyond trial design and patient inclusion/exclusion criteria may explain this discouraging trend.