A disconnect in the cancer clinical trial ecosystem stands out as a key factor impeding successful feasibility assessment. Trial sites typically assume the role of the passive participant unable to translate key patient data into cogent insights, while sponsors conduct their feasibility studies with the help of data partners that lack quality population insights.A disconnect in the cancer clinical trial ecosystem stands out as a key factor impeding successful feasibility assessment. Trial sites typically assume the role of the passive participant unable to translate key patient data into cogent insights, while sponsors conduct their feasibility studies with the help of data partners that lack quality population insights. This article provides insight into the impact of this disconnect and underscores how blockchain technology is capable of reducing this friction so that patient data can be used more effectively to increase length of clinical trials and improve potential positive results, bringing us one step closer to effective treatments for patients with cancer.I’ll start off by answering the title question with a fact — current enrolment rates for oncology trials are less than 14%. This begs the question — with hundreds of researchers conducting Phase I-III cancer clinical trials in Canada every year, what gives? The answer lies in a number of factors but none more so than the disconnect between physicians and sponsors when it comes to feasibility assessment. The typical sponsor conducting a cancer trial aims to enrol patients within a given time frame, generate viable data, and publish their findings. For a physician in charge of recruitment, plan quality is of the utmost importance as they aim to provide quality patient care and produce actionable insights from trial results. Sponsors focusing on larger targets understandably struggle to identify an idealTranslating this into a concrete example, it is not clear that sponsors can even identify viable trial sites to begin with. An estimated 1 m patients in the US suffer from advanced melanoma , but only ~5% of these patients are even eligible for any trial that may be conducted in the US. Ironically, some of these patients have already signed up and been enrolled for trials at many other satellite locations. There are not enough appropriate patients being found at any given trial site to conduct a proper trial. The problem starts with the disconnect between what providers know about their patient populations and what sponsors know about their potential populations.  Bottom line: reliable data (and insights) on target populations cannot be translated into clinical trial feasibility for such patient populations toA recent study by the International Society of Oncology Clinical Trials (ISOC) showed a lower than average enrolment rate for oncology trials in China. A closer look at the coverage gap showed that feasibility assessment for cancer studies was not successful due to non-entered patients and incomplete data.Why are enrolment rates for oncology trials so low? One common talking point in the cancer community is that oncology clinical trial enrollment is characterized by a low feasibility rate. But, how low are we really talking here? And what does that mean for patients? More importantly, if enrolment rates are a key measure of trial feasibility, how may we be able to improve them? There are many factors that influence feasibility assessment and ultimately trial results. Some of these factors include: the complexity of the disease being studies, the composition of the treatment arm, and the study target population.