Enrolment rates of cancer clinical trials remain discouragingly low. In a recent analysis published in the Lancet,1 of over 8000 properly assessed studies, only 2% were found to be potentially feasible (Scaletti et al. 2016). Contributing factors include competing clinical trials, inappropriate patient inclusion criteria and low trial volume. However, a disconnect in the cancer clinical trial ecosystem stands out as a key factor impeding successful feasibility assessment.What we have here, is a disconnect in the clinical trial ecosystem that’s preventing successful feasibility assessments. Cancer trial sites tend to fill their rosters without first developing a strong grasp of local patient populations. And sponsors of these trials turn to data providers that lack understanding of the region where the study will take place.Satisfaction with the current cancer clinical trial environment is at an all time low, according to a recent clinical trial survey conducted by CanDo. Of the 300 global oncologists surveyed, less than one third (28%) strongly agreed that clinical trials are worthwhile – compared to 30% in 2013 and 35% in 20121. When asked what factors contribute to this perception, a majority (53%) cited a lack of useful data from trial sites as key – followed by information gaps between sponsors and sites (40%), and high site costs (37%).A cancer trial is a complex undertaking involving a number of stakeholders including pharmaceutical companies, contract research organizations, sites hosting the trials and patients. However, one area of the clinical trial ecosystem has largely been ignored despite its relevance to oncology trials: patients. Although the patient experience encompasses many elements, it ultimately boils down to their willingness to be part of an oncology trial.Trial sites that lack insight into the patient population are less likely to use the most effective recruitment tactics and are more likely to give up on a trial. Sponsors, in turn, are less likely to glean selectivity and eligibility information critical for the planning of the primary study. The nuanced problem is not just one of site or sponsor but of the gap in quality data between what sponsors source and what sites manage.This article proposes a two-way communication model where trial sites gain access to netCDF-based oncology clinical trial data in order to build cancer registries and ultimately contribute to the discovery of novel therapies.