A disconnect in the cancer clinical trial ecosystem stands out as a key factor impeding successful feasibility assessment. Trial sites typically assume the role of the passive participant unable to translate key patient data into cogent insights, while sponsors conduct their feasibility studies with the help of data partners that lack quality population insights. This lack of quality population data is compounded by unprecedented global heterogeneity within oncology studies across diverse regions; highlighted recently by Amitabh Srivastava with his study of trial cohorts between 2004 and 2012.Trial sites (hospitals, clinics and oncology practices) are the people frequently in contact with the cancer patients. They have substantial knowledge about the local environment, including socio-economic profiles of their patients, which could be important factors in whether physicians say yes to the clinical trial or not. On the other hand, sponsors () and data partners () don’t have such access.New cancer treatments are typically evaluated through randomized Phase III clinical trials. But despite their proven value, only 20-30% of new cancer drugs make it to market. This is due, in part, to a disconnect between the clinical trial ecosystem built around the sponsor organizations who conduct trials and the other stakeholders — including trial sites that host patients and patient advocacy groups who work with patients on trial participation. A recent ASCO survey indicated that while 64% of clinician respondents felt “trial sponsors should continue to take on most of the responsibility for drug development and support a greater diversity of endpoints”, 58% also thought “patients should have more influence on which drugs are tested in clinical trials”.Why are enrolment rates for oncology trials so low? That was the question posed during the 12 th Annual Oncology Clinical Trials Conference (OCTC) held in Chicago on September 14 th and 15 th . While the question is simple to ask, it has no easy answers. One reason can stem from a wide variety of factors such as patient eligibility criteria and/or advanced disease stage that may limit patient accessibility to a trial site.When it comes to cancer clinical trials, there is a lot of information available on the factors they are trying to target, but what is the problem with execution of this process? That was the focus of Dr. Lo’s talk: Why are enrolment rates for oncology trials so low?In recent years, there has been a growing body of literature suggesting that the rate of enrolment for oncology trials is low. In response to this issue, some stakeholders in the oncology clinical community have identified a few potential root causes such as patient preference and epidemiological factors.